In Alteryx, the building of
the cluster model is done using
the Case Centroid Cluster Analysis tool.
First, we bring in the same data that
we used in the diagnostics process.
Next, we bring in
the cluster analysis tool.
The configuration looks
similar to what we saw in
the K-Centroids Diagnostics Tool,
with just a couple of minor changes.
First, we'll give it a solution name.
Next, we'll select
the same fields that we
used to determine the number of Clusters
we wanted from the Diagnostics tool.
One important thing to understand,
is that we have determined the optimal
number of clusters based on
a certain set of variables and
a specific clustering method.
So when we set up the process to
actually build out the clustering model,
the configuration in this tool should
be the same as what was chosen
in the Diagnostics tool.
To be specific,
select the same variables,
the same standardization process and
the same method.
When we decided what the optimal
number of clusters was,
we chose the Z score, and a neural gas.
As you can see,
I've selected the same items here.
Now we want to set the number of
clusters to be the number that we
decided in the diagnostics process,
to be optimal.
The only place where some
flexibility can occur is setting
the number of starting seeds.
As you will recall, the initial
locations of the cluster centroids
has an effect on
the outcome of the model.
During the diagnostics process,
we set it at a number that would give us
some variation, that would provide for
multiple results that
we could average from.
When building the model out it is
usually best to increase this number as
it will provide for better accuracy as
the process runs through each iteration.
This will give it a better set of
results on which to base the final
solution.
So as you'll recall during
the diagnostics process,
the starting seeds was set at three.
We're going to leave it with
the default here at ten.
The results from the report
side of the process allow us to
understand the characteristics of
the clusters that were created.
To see those, we would add a browse
tool to the report side of the tool.
Now that the browse tool is added,
we just click Run.